tell me something um does this sound
like a cult to you at all I am grateful
for discovering durianrider he taught me
about life more than I have learned in
15 years of studying and schools and in
the university no not even a little bit
a little bit cult-like a little bit
culty I am grateful for discovering
freelee the banana girl on YouTube and
she showed me how to do veganism
properly to be happy and satisfied No
maybe it's just me um gratitude is I
think one of the most irrelevant and
counterproductive categories that vegans
have been congratulating and
flagellating themselves under the
heading of I am grateful for being able
to live in Thailand right now it's a bit
weird because the modus operandi here is
to preach and practice the permanent
vacation to live a life of total
self-indulgence but then to back this up
with constant statements about how
grateful you feel that you're able to
live this life with no responsibilities
this life of self-indulgence this life
of physical pleasures that is all
wrapped up in an ideology that tells you
that you are saving the world while
you're on vacation I am grateful for
having the access to best quality fruit
here in Thailand
because there is 40,000 kids dying in
Africa today because they have nothing
to eat look you know I can put up with
up to a point there are worse things on
earth I don't really have any animus or
chip with my schulter about this stuff
and if you hang out in Thailand it's
full of scumbags
who are on power trips about how they're
saving the world through rock crystals
or yoga or some meditation therapy their
work you know there are all kinds of
people to compete with the flaky BS the
durianrider and freely or selling but
there is an alternative to gratitude and
a life of self-indulgence
you can recognize the advantages you've
got in life don't need to use words like
privilege you have advantages other
people of disadvantages now I could have
been born with a clubfoot I could have
been born with a stutter I could have
been born with twice as much money or
half as much money as my family has all
of us have advantages and disadvantages
coming into the game but the question is
what are you gonna do with it and I
think the reason why you have to have
this cult of gratitude is because these
people recognize that what they're doing
with it is not helping any of the issues
they claim they care about I am grateful
for being able to live amazing life
every single day
oh yeah well you know you feel grateful
because other people are starving and
living in poverty and you're not yeah
well you know you could do something
about it
oh you know you feel grateful because um
you know human trafficking is a problem
this is in Thailand yeah none of you you
know I mean any of you could be using
your YouTube channel even to make a
documentary about this issue addressing
it but you could actually do something
you could take the privilege and
advantages you have in life and do
something positive with it instead of an
aesthetic of gratitude
you could have an aesthetic of ambition
ambition to make a positive change um a
conversation about repeatedly with a few
different university professors over the
years some of you may or may not know a
lot of my research of the past had to do
with Buddhism ancient and modern I've
also done research on politics social
problems poverty economics all kind of
stuff uh and then spoke with professors
of Buddhism I would often ask them why
don't you you personally do something
about you know apes being tortured to
death on your campus and these guys were
in a position to make a difference they
were in a position of privilege a
position of certain advantages where
actually they could make a difference a
normal student certainly couldn't make
or a normal punter walking on the street
couldn't make and they would even be
rewarded for it professionally you know
within the university they can sit on
the ethics committee they can access
both through Freedom Information Act and
through just taking advantage of what is
available publicly dad about what's
really going on and they could sit there
and write a letter to the local
newspaper when these issues come up or
give interviews completely non radical
you know risk free activism they could
really shine a flashlight on an issue
that many people want to avoid and they
could make principled statements simply
as a professor of Buddhism in the
in the given University and say well I'm
a professor of Buddhism it's not my
field but I sit on the Ethics Committee
I read the annual reports from the
biomedical sciences wing and I'm part of
this university and here's my opinion
and here's my concern and then other
people can back it up or kick it around
City Hall whatever um you know they're
in a position to play a really positive
role and I got different sorts of
excuses back from professors as to why
they don't do this as to why in fact
they do lead lives of self-indulgence
shall I say Chu you try to find me an
example of a professor of Buddhism by
the way was any interest in poverty or
politics in Cambodia Thailand Laos Sri
Lanka sadly there - there's a separation
from political reality that's a bit
shameful but I digress um
imagine if any one of these professors
had come back to with the excuse of them
well you know I just feel a lot of
gratitude you know I just feel very
grateful that I get to come into this
university and teach courses and do
original research I'm I'm focused on
that home boy um instead of feeling
gratitude for the difference you don't
make why not actually try to make a
difference people think of ambition as
if it only had to do with money that's
very sad my ambitions in life had
nothing to do with money
that's got to be good to where I am in
life which is not having any money so
that can work out for you chase your
dreams people but look you know any of
these scumbags like the homie Joe BES
you know if you're just a little bit of
ambition
imagine if he just wanted to get an
article published in the newspaper no I
have I've had a couple different
articles potions while I was living in
Southeast Asia while I was doing
humanitarian work while I was doing
Reese
and for me that wasn't a big ambition
but you know any of these folks who are
talking about gratitude and this weird
cult of the permanent vacation
pretending that you're saving the world
when you're living this life of
self-indulgence um you know imagine if
you just had the passion to write an
article on any subject and you got it
translated into Thai or translated into
Cambodian or translated to Chinese and
you said you know I want this to see
print I want this to reach an audience
in a mainstream newspaper think about
the you know inherently humbling
relationships that brings you in to you
know now you have an editor at the
newspaper you get along with now you
have you know demands and deadlines and
what have you now you're engaged with
the whole social sphere around you in
all sorts of ways that a tourist isn't
you know it's really a mockery of what
the word community means to say that you
check into a hotel for two weeks with
people who maybe drink and dance and
ride a bicycle with you for those two
weeks and it called out a community in a
lot of ways if you spend time with
journalists people are trying to make an
honest living out of a pen out of doing
research and writing words there you
have really a much more dynamic sense of
community
if you hang out with journalists in
Thailand there are questions like hey if
I get thrown in prison are you going to
come and visit me you know if I'm put on
trial because you know the government
interprets an article I've written as
insulting you know to the interest of
the state are you gonna be there to back
me up in court and you know day to day
are you gonna help me meet this deadline
are you gonna help me do this research
are you gonna help me figure out what's
why are you gonna help me set up this
interview no we get this done
and I can't say it's a different world
it's exactly the same world these people
on permanent vacation in it's just a
world they are choosing to ignore